>> Richard Feldman: Okay, let's take
a look at the exercise for part five.
>> Richard Feldman: Okay,
>> Richard Feldman: All right, so
this is the part where we flip the bit and
we are now not just working on what we had
before, where we were just
building up this index.html.
We are now actually working with
the entire working application.
So we have a new directory called assets,
which just has some static assets.
Not gonna worry about that too much.
If we look inside the source
directory though,
we now have a whole bunch more stuff,
so a whole bunch of Elm files.
We've actually got some additional
directories in there for
even more sources.
And 99% of these we're not going to worry
about for the purpose of this workshop.
The reason they're there is to sort
of give you a sense of not just how
do I build an Elm application
from scratch, that's very simple,
which is what we've been
working with up to this point.
But this is now demonstrating, okay,
what does it feel like to work
inside an existing ELM code base?
Let's fast forward and say,
you've gotten it introduced at work,
you're working with this
larger ELM code base.
What does it feel like to work inside
of this code base and make changes?
Because really, that's I think a very
important part of sort of the experience
of using ELM is what does it feel like
when you're making changes to an existing
code base that's way too much to
already have loaded into your head.
And as you can see here, there's no
way to get up to speed this quickly.
We're just going to be relying on the
compiler, and we're just gonna see just
how much help it can give us when
we're solving these exercises.
Cool, okay, so part five.
I open up the Readme.
It sort of explains that we're going
to be working on this larger code base.
We're still going to be
building src/main.elm, but
we're gonna be editing different files.
So src/main.elm imports all other
files that we're gonna be modifying.
So for the rest of the workshop we're
still going to be building the same way,
it's just that we don't need to point it
at different files just because we're
editing different files.
The fact that main imports those files
means that the compiler will figure it
out for us.
Second thing is instead
of opening index.html,
we're now gonna open local host port 3000.
So that's that server we set up
at the beginning of the workshop.
And finally we're gonna specify
a slightly different output target,
which is to say ../server/public/elm.js.
And basically this is so
that it's going to be outputted
into the folder that the server that we've
got running is going to be expecting,
rather than into our local directory.
So start off with that.
ELM make, okay, success,
compiled one module.
And now when I go back to my browser,
I'm going to go to local host port 3000.
Great and here we can see everything
looks pretty similar except there's now,
believe it or not, a whole bunch more
functionality going on behind the scenes,
not just rendering a little avatar.
[LAUGH] There's actually
an entire application here.
So now we can sign in, we can sign up,
we can click links to people's profiles.
There's way more functionality
than what we had before.
Also, this is a single page app, but we're
not gonna get into how those work today.
Just be aware that this is really
a sort of fully-featured example app.
Also worth noting that this is, being
a real world app, you can see this whole
application implemented in
various different technologies,
which can also be a good learning tool.
So there's a react Redux version of this.
There's an Angular version of this.
There's a Vue version of this.
If you go to their website, which we'll
have a link to at the end, you can see
this same application implemented in
a bunch of different technologies.
And by the end of this workshop,
you'll be at least partially familiar
with the ELM implementation.
Cool, okay, so same format as
what we've been doing so far.
We're gonna open up main.elem and we're
gonna start working through the to do's.
You may notice there are slightly
more imports now because,
well there's a lot of
stuff going on there now.
And actually I just remembered that for
this exercise,
we're not gonna work on main.elm.
It's actually going to be
src/Page/register.elm.
So this is the sign up page.
So still more imports,
but not as many as main.
Main wires everything together, so it's
got the most imports as a general rule.
Okay, so this is sign up page.
And so right now when we open up
the sign up page, there's a bug, and
this bug exists because I introduced it so
we could do an exercise around it.
But here's the bug.
So let's say I wanna
sign up as RT Feldman.
I'm like, yeah, cool,
Email address is, hey,
where did my username go?
That's weird, let's try again,
rtfeldman, okay, kept it, great.
My email is, come on, what's going on?
So there's a weird bug here where when I'm
typing in my username it works fine, and
then as soon as I start typing
in any of the other fields,
like if I start typing in a password,
it clears it out.
And that's the symptom of the bug, and
we're gonna see what the root cause is and
then fix it over the course
of this exercise.
Okay, so here's our first to do.
When the user inputs a user name,
update it in the model.
So that's kind of a clue list
of what's the problem here is.
We currently are not actually writing
down the username whenever the user
types it in.
Which means that as soon as we
change any of the other forms,
it immediately sort of gets blown
way as ELM rerenders the page.
I'm not going to explain how to do this.
Because if this were a real code base,
we wouldn't necessarily know
how all these things work.
We see a bunch of ELM code here, and
we sort of know how ELM code works.
We don't know the exact details
of how this code base works yet.
That's okay, though.
We have all the tools to do it,
the compiler's gonna help us out.
Now we've got a hint which is to say you
can see examples of how to do something
like this in the email input below, right.
We've also got email which
is working properly,
we've got password which
is working properly.
It's just username that's broken.
So we're gonna use that as an example, and
take a look at that to figure
out how to solve this problem.
There's only one to do in here,
but there's some implications.
This is not going to be one of those
things where we can just add one line of
code here and it's just gonna work.
The one line of code that we add is going
to have be based on making some other
modifications to this file, using custom
types that we just learned about,
using the ELM architecture that we
learned about in the previous sections.
And all the tips and
tricks that we've accumulated
throughout the course of the workshop.
So this is a live fire exercise,
we're gonna solve our first ELM
bug in an unfamiliar code base, and we're
gonna do it in between 10 and 15 minutes.